Elemare - Product, Technology, Delivery and Consulting






Elemare - Product, Technology, Delivery and Consulting





























Home
About
Services
Contact









Product and Technology focused team
We're here to help you construct your product with the right technology and support

Get Started















Startup Roots
 We have worked and built various products and platforms in startups in multiple roles and have acquired the skills to maximize output with minimum resources





Enterprise Vision
We've helped build platforms for some of the largest companies in the world. Enterprise-grade. Full-stack. Cloud native. And more





Engineering Foundation
We're passionate about building and testing cloud native products. We have a strong engineering foundation to help ensure the stability, reliability, and performance of your cloud native applications













We bring an industry best approach to connect product, technology and services together.

            The days of building products with the most basic technology are long gone—the line between a successful product and an unsuccessful one is becoming increasingly thin. At Elemare, we work with you to make sure that your product is built with the latest technology, so it will perform as you require and provide all the features you need. We also understand that behind every great product are teams of dedicated and talented people who have to deliver. That's why we offer continuous support to ensure that you always have the right team at your side. To serve your needs we offer
            

 Product level services - design, development and launch
 Technology and Engineering services - architect, develop and test
 Delivery services - providing offshore and onsite delivery partners

We are a team of thinkers, designers and startup entrepreneurs (with roots in the technology community) that exists to help you generate thought-provoking ideas, clarify your vision and ultimately, bring it to life.









Avg years of experience



Startups experience



Successful product launch









Services
Everything you need to build a product
We provide technology and services to help you design and develop products





Technology Consulting
We are offering integrated end-to-end services to our clients in the industry





Delivery Service
Our delivery of service is always aligned with your technology needs





Product 360
We'll make sure you get your product to market in a reasonable amount of time by advising you on technology and services









Know more about us
 If you want to know more about services and engagement models, please contact us directly. We can provide details of our services and will be happy to answer all your queires.
Talk to Us







Our Tech Expertise
Our Tech Expertise
We have strong technical and engineering foundation





Cloud Native
In house expertise in AWS and Azure cloud native platforms. We have strong roots in Serverless computing





Development
NodeJS, .NET, JAVA and PHP based application development with modern days Javascript frameworks such as React and Angular 





Architecture
Serverless or container driven microservice architetcure highly focused on compliance and information security














Location
 145 Pine Haven Shores Suite 1000-A, Shelburne, VT, 05482, USA





Contact
 info@elemare.com
 +1 (303) 816-8593





Queries
 TALK TO US 











   © Copyright Elemare LLC . 2023. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy. For tracking information please refer to our Cookie Policy.
   Theme designed by BootstrapMade




















