Rajula Malushahi


Kumaon Folk Tale


V1
________________




“I was sitting under a big tree. The tree was surrounded by big dark bushes from one side and the other side has a deep water lake. I did not know how I reached this place. How can one travel to such a dense and dangerous spot? Felt like I was sleeping, and when I woke up, I found myself in this place. The sky was clean and the sun was enjoyable. But surely I was in the middle of a dense remote forest. I had never seen such bushes and leaves before. The lake was calm and clean. The water was so transparent that you could see fish and stones under the water. This was beautiful. 


Though it was a strange and beautiful place, I was tired. I don’t know why I was tired. I felt something was going to happen. Something that I never experienced. I was terrified. Then I heard a silent growl. It was a very deep and calm growl. Slowly it appeared the growl was getting louder but deeper. I could tell it was a tiger. I could judge the growl coming from the bushes. I got scared. I wanted to run but there was nowhere to run. I realized I had no weapon either.


I heard a crunching noise from the bushes. As if someone is crushing them and making their way towards me.Scared me, started gazing at that bush. I wanted to move but could not. Felt like I was paralyzed. Soon, I saw two big eyes from the bush. They were bright and calm. I had my eye contact with those eyes, I could not forget that feeling. We looked at each other. I could see a glimpse of his face. Not very clear though. I was certain this is the tiger who was growling deep. I thought I was going to die. I imagined, in the next move the tiger would jump on me, and I would be eaten. 


But nothing happened. The tiger did not seem aggressive to me. It looked at me calmly. I could not see the rest of his body. As if someone is looking at me from behind the bushes. But I could tell, this tiger was not ordinary. I could imagine it was bigger than all the tigers I’ve ever seen in my life. We looked at each other for some time. Then it made a loud growl and slowly disappeared. I have heard many growls in my life, but this was different. A very deep and calm growl. 


I was relaxed but shocked. I did not know what just happened. Then I heard a lot of birds chirping. They seemed agitated. I tried to find where the chirp was coming from. Suddenly I saw a big Naga under the tree. It was black. I don’t know if it saw me or not, but I could tell it passed very close to me. This Naga was long and thick. Again, I had never seen such a snake in my life. This beautiful, long and healthy Naga was making his way to the lake. The birds might have seen the snake and chirped. You could imagine my situation after seeing this. Now what was that ? 


I looked at the sky. I could see big, thick and dark clouds starting to appear.It was a beautiful clean sky just a few moments ago. Where did these clouds come from? That too very fast. Just in a few moments the clouds covered the whole sky. There was nothing you could see in the sky except dark. The sunlight had gone, it appeared that I was in the middle of the night. I was confused and terrified. By the time I could think of something, I heard a big thunder. As if mountains are collapsing. It continued for some time. The whole surrounding became dark. Darker than Amawasya. I started looking at the sky. It was all dark. It appears the sky is full of dark thick clouds. But soon I saw a small spot of light in the sky. Probably a star. I looked at the star and was wondering how only one star is visible in this dark sky. The light of the sky was constant. As if someone has stuck a star in a big back canvas. Suddenly I felt a drop of water in my eye from the sky, I woke up”  King Dula Shah explained his dream to his wife Queen Dharma Devi. 


King Dula Shah was having this dream for the last three days. The king was religious and very kind to his people. Queen Dharma was no lesser than her husband. The couple had no child. They tried all the medicines, prayed to all the Gods, but could not get their desire fulfilled. King Dula had accepted that there is no child in his destiny. His advisors advised him so many times to marry another princess from some dynasty. A marriage could give the kingdom of Bairtah an heir. But the King loved his wife so much that he never thought of marrying again. 


Though the king did not like the idea of marrying again, he was worried for the future of this kingdom. Bairath was a prosperous kingdom. The people were happy and they respected their king. They had great agricultural land that could produce all sorts of grains, fruits and flowers. Their animals were healthy and milky. There was no sickness or poverty in the kingdom. Bairath’s beauty and prosperous was so popular that people from neighbor kingdom used to call it “Colourful Bairath”.


King Dula knew that there were a lot of bad eyes from the neighbors to occupy his kingdom. He knew soon he would be old and weak. Then he might not be able to defend his land and people. This tension was eating the king all the time. 


When King Dula explained the dream to his wife, he was not sure why he was getting this dream again and again. Listening to his dream, the queen suggested if there is some mistake done by him as a king or something bad is about to happen to the kingdom, probably Gods are sending him signals. 
“Sometimes we don’t know the outcomes of our actions even if our intentions are good, probably we missed something in our prayer. Gods are not happy” , said queen Dharma.


“But what did we do wrong ? The Gods are not blessing us anyway with an heir. What bad they could do with this kingdom if they leave us without a successor. “ King was sad. 


“ We don’t know everything my King. That’s why they are the Gods and we are humans.” Dharma relaxed the King and continued “Dreams are signals.We can only guess about the outcome. Perhaps, there is a great message hidden. If dreams repeat, they certainly carry a message. Only a saint or a wise soul can read  these messages. We should talk to Guru Ji. Guru Ji knows the secrets of life, he has blessed us in the past with his great wisdom. We should ask him about your dream” 


King Dula found some relax. “ Yes, I think you are right. I am worried for my people. I don’t know the future of Bairat. If the Gods care about our people they should show this to us. I think only Guru Ji can help us here. Let’s plan to visit him” he said.


“ I will arrange the travel “, Queen Dharma assured. 


The next morning, King Dula and Queen Dharma got ready for a short journey. About 20 miles from Bairat city, a dense forest was spread in acres. There were all sorts of animals and birds in the jungle from killer tigers to shy deers. King carried a few soldiers with him led by his loyal minister and adviser Kali. Queen Dharma accompanied by her maid Vidya. Dula, Dharma and Vidya got a chariot to travel while Kali and soldiers had horses. 


There was a small hut in the middle of the jungle on a small hilltop. This hut was the home for Guru Gorakh Nath and was known by the name of “Guru Ji’s Hut”. Guru Gorakh Nath was famous as a divine personality in the whole kingdom. He was a yogi, who lived in the Himalaya for years in deep meditation. People believed he had divine powers and he knew the past, present and future. Royals, common people and even wild animals respected him, hence without any fear he was living in the dense forest for many years. 


Since a lot of people used to go and meet Guru Ji and King’s visits were also quite often, the road from the city to Guru Ji’s hut was well maintained. King’s orders were very clear - there should be no difficulty reaching Guruji to anyone. 
After a short journey, King’s team stopped in front of the hut. The King and Queen got down from the chariot. They both removed their footwear. And started walking towards the hut. 


It was a very simple hut with one room and a varanda. At the coroner of the veranda there was a stone stove. Next to the stove there was a big pot, used for cooking and a few plates of leaves. There was a small clay oven, full of ashes,  embedded in the middle of the veranda. 


Inside the room, at a corner, where there was no good light, Guru Ji was sitting in his yoga position, he was in deep meditation. Black long hairs till his waist, dense black beard and mustache, healthy and fit body, sitting straight, Guru Ji looked like a warrior and yogi at the same time. His eyes were closed, face was serious but with a very light smile. He was wearing a Dhoti. His chest was naked and was rubbed with ashes. He had a few Rudraksha garlands in his neck.  Next to his sitting there was a Trishul, and a Kamandal. 


The couple walked toward Guru Ji’s seat. They bowed their heads to Guru Ji and sat in front of him. Guru Ji’s eyes were closed and he was still in his meditation. Few moments passed, and there was a beautiful silence in the hut. 


“This time you took a long time, Dula. You seem to be very busy in your kingdom now” with a deep thick voice Guru Ji said. His eyes were still closed. The couple was not surprised. They knew that through his divine power, Guru Ji was already expecting guests. 


“My apologies Guru Ji. The kingdom is keeping me busy, but you are always in my thoughts” said the polite king. 


Guru Ji smiled. 


“I know you are not having good sleep lately. The tiger and the snake are keeping you awake. Trust me son, I did not send them “ Guru Ji said in a mischievous smile. 


The couple did not took a second chance to realize that Guru Ji knows everything about the dream. This was the power of his divine achievements that he could see everything and the couple was not surprised by this.


King Dula got a bit relaxed knowing the fact that Guru Ji is aware of his dream. He bowed his head towards Guru Ji’ sitting and said “ You know everything Guru Ji. You are the divine soul. I am sure you know why this dream is coming to me again and again. Is it a riddle ? Or Gods are not happy with me. Is our kingdom in trouble? Please guide me Guru Ji. “


Guru ji opened his eyes. He looked at Dharama and said “ Do you think Gods are not happy with us daughter?  “


“ I don’t know Guru Ji. I certainly know these dreams are not normal. You already know the kingdom has no heirs and the enemies are waiting for a chance. What should we guess with dream signals “ Dharma said in a sad voice.


Guu ji closed his eyes again. After a few moments of silence he began to speak 
“When a king does justice to his people, gives love and respect to them, makes sure nobody is hungry, follows religion and customs, doesn’t kill humans and animals in his kingdom, he is loved by the Gods. And, if a Queen advices to do all the right things to her King, she is a always admired by the Gods. Dula and Dharma, you do everything I just said, I don’t see any reasons Gods are upset with you”


King got relaxed. Guru Ji continued “ We don’t know everything but the Gods know. They play this game of life. Our duty is to do our karma. And time to time they signal you to do something to fulfill your karma or for a better good of society through you.”


Guru Ji opened his eyes, looked straight to the couple and said “I know about your dream. I know about the gentle tiger and beautiful Naga. I can imagine the beautiful lake and everything you saw Dula. Your suspected correct, Gods sent you a message.”


The couple got eager to know. They looked at Guru Ji with curious eyes. Guru Ji continued “ The one who is omnipresent and omnipotent. The one who knows start and end. He has formed the whole universe and he can destroy the earth, sun and all the stars in moments. The God of Gods, God Shiva has all the things you are watching in your dream. He sits on a mat of tiger’s skin and wears Naga as garland. The pious river Bhagirathi is emerging from his hairs. Bhagirathi’a water is as pure as Amrit. His anger can bring thunder and mountains can be destroyed in blink of an eye. You saw everything that signifies God Shiva.
Dear Dula, Gods are sending you the signals to worship God Shiva. He will definitely bless you and will bring light in your dark future.”


Guru ji stopped talking and after few moments, he looked at Dula, who seemed to have questions in his eyes. 


“I think you have questions for me, you are not happy with my explanation” Guru Ji said with a smile.


“No Guru Ji. You have the eyes to see the future and to understand riddles of Gods. I have no dare to question your description. Although , I don’t understand how to worship God Shiva as I keep him in my thoughts in all my daily prayers” Dula explained.


Guru ji laughed and said “ You are a king Dula. Your actions are the yardsticks for others. Your demands and duties are much higher than others. Gods want you to worship like a King.” 


“How can I do this Guru Ji. Only you can tell me the right way” confused king asked.


Guru ji again closed his eyes. After few moments of silence and then he said “You go to Bagnath temple.  You go there not like a king but like a common man.  Spend a few weeks there worshiping God Shiva.  Makar Sankranti is about to come. Till then stay there. Daily after  taking a bath in the morning, you and your wife should offer pure water to Shivling.  Praise Shiva.  Meditate on Shiva.  After that, serve the beggars and poor people around the temple for the whole day.  Feed them. Do Shiva bhajan at night.  Surrender yourself completely to Shiva. I can see the Gods have called you there. Be sure to go. Are you able to do this King ? “


Without blinking an eye, the king said, “I consider myself fortunate that the Gods have ordered me to go to the Shiva temple and worship there.  I have no doubt that I have to complete this task.” 


“We shall do our best Guru Ji, we are blessed and fortunate”, the queen concurred. 


“Alright then. Plan for your journey Dula. May Gods pour their blessings on you” Guru ji opened his eyes and wished. 


Dula and Dharma were happy and excited. Guru ji had given them a ray of hope. The couple bowed down to Guru Ji and started their journey back to the palace. In the next few days, this couple was about to go on a long journey to Bagnath.




****


To the north of Bairath, there was a beautiful valley across miles of forests and mountains, which was named Darma Valley.  This area was also called Bhot Pradesh by the people of the nearby states.  People of Shoka dynasty used to live here.  Among these Shoka people there was a reputed and wealthy businessman - Sunpat Shoka.  Sunpat was a pious and philanthropic businessman.  His wife Ganguly was also no less in the works of religion and charity.  Sunpat and Ganguly had a big name in the entire Darma valley.


The Shauka family had no dearth of wealth and opulence. The house was full of servants. Sunpat had friendly relations with kings and merchants of many countries.  Even after all this, Sunpat and Ganguly were being consumed by a sorrow.  They did not have any child.  Ganguly often used to say to her husband – “What will we do with this wealth.  Who will enjoy it after us”.  Sunpat has no answer to this question.  He himself was also sad about this.  Although he would give only one answer to Ganguly, “It is all God's will, who has given the happiness of money, if he finds it appropriate, he will definitely give the happiness of children”.  


Ganguly used to take care of the whole house herself.  There were special instructions to the servants that no one should leave the door hungry.  On special occasions the couple used to make a lot of donations.




One day when Ganguly was busy with some household work, a servant told her that a monk was standing at the door.  The monk was insisting that he would take food only from the hands of the mistress of the house. For Ganguly it was no matter.  Some sadhus were very proud and used to take food only from the hands of the owners of the house.  Thinking this, Ganguly went towards the door.


A strange looking monk was standing at the door.  He was old but of strong stature.  His hair was long and white.  He didn't have a beard.   He was wearing nothing but a white dhoti that was old but clean. His body was smeared with ashes.  Many Rudraksha beads were worn around the neck. His face was serious and with a slight smile.  He had a Kamandal in one hand and a Rudraksh rosary in the other.


Ganguly bowed his head in respect on seeing him.  Touched his feet and said, “Baba, you have blessed us by appearing at our door.  Please come in and accept the food"


“May you be eternally fortunate.  Daughter, Baba's desire is only to eat fruits.  Bring whatever fruits you have.  ′′ The monk said while giving blessings and set the easy on one side of the courtyard. Ganguly herself  brought a basket of fruits from the kitchen.  He started eating fruits.  Ganguly asked “Baba, where have you come from.  You don't seem to belong to this state, do you?" 


“Monks never belong to one state, daughter.  The house of a monk is the whole world.  Just traveling from one state to another is our life.  A few years back I had come to the Himalayas for penance.  Now leaving for Bagnath.  Hope to reach there by Makar Sankranti.” The monk replied. 


“I have heard a lot about Bagnath, I wish to go there sometime “ said Ganguly. 


“If you want, you must go. What's the problem?" the monk asked with a smile


"Baba, I don't get time for household chores. My husband is a businessman. He travels to faraway countries. I have to take care of the house. I have heard that unless God Shiva invites, there is no chance to travel. Perhaps the God hasn't considered us worthy yet " Ganguly said in a sad voice.


"It is also possible that the call will come soon. And why wait for the call? Shiva's court is everyone's. I know that there is a void behind this splendor of yours. This wealth has no value. The happiness of motherhood is paramount for a woman and you are deprived of that. Then what do you think? Meditate on Shiva and make arrangements for the journey to Bagnath. Ask for his blessings for your motherhood" said the monk looking into the eyes of Ganguly.




Ganguly came to know that he is not an ordinary man but a Siddha. Tears came out of her eyes. Hiding her sorrow, she said, "Baba, you seem to be all-knowing. It is as if there is a curse on this house. Even after all the efforts, there is no child's happiness. We feel defeated. He is busy with business and I have decided to spend my life in the service of monks and ascetics. Now this is life."


The monk  said with a deep smile, "You are getting disappointed. Despair is the door to hell. There is no end till it's over. I am seeing you in the temple of God. You are the one who is getting disappointed. Don't worry. A good message is on your way."


Saying this, the monk stood up. Putting his hand on Ganguly's head, he said, "You are going to be immortal in history, Shokyani". Before Ganguly could understand anything, the monk went out of the door. Ganguly went running after him but surprisingly, that monk disappeared as soon as he went out of the door. Ganguly sent his servants to find him but all returned empty handed


Three days later a strange incident happened. A horse rider came with Sunpat's message. Sunpat had left for Hun country's journey only four days back. He often used to go there for trade. He had to come back after six months. But Ganguly was surprised after reading the message. Sunpat was coming back next week. It was written in the message that suddenly heavy rain started in the mountains. All the passes seem to be closed and the journey ahead is risky. All the traders have decided that they will return and start the journey again after a few months. Ganguli was happy. 


After a week Sunpat returned to Darma. He started telling his experience to Ganguly.


“The lightning was thundering as if the mountains were collapsing. Big stones were being carried away. The water of the rivers was in spate. I was getting visions of death. I have traveled many times on this route but never experienced anything like this." Sunpat's voice was filled with wonder.


There were tears in Ganguly's eyes with love, she said "Thank God you are well."


"Yes but another strange incident happened. When I was returning I took shelter for a night in an inn. I was sad that I could not complete my journey. The stock of salt which I had to sell in Hun country was going to be an overhead for me. Where will I sell?
I was feeling sorry for the loss in business. Some of my salt had already got spoiled due to water. Meanwhile,  another businessman came to that inn. He told me that he can help me sell all my salt. But for that I have to send all the salt to Bagnath. It is heard that a big fair is held in Bagnath on Makar Sankranti. Many friends of that merchant will come who can buy this salt.” Sunpat was still wondering while speaking this. 


“I don’t know where that merchant came from. He did not give me any address. He said, if I visit Bagnath, he will find me. For a moment I thought he was a swindler, but then he gave me a good amount of money in advance.” Sunpat continued. 


As soon as Ganguly heard the word “Bagnath”, her eyes sparkled. She was an intelligent woman. She immediately realized this is all related to the monk who visited her a few days back. She got excited and told the whole incident of the monk coming. The couple knew it was a signal. 


“We should prepare for travel. Makar Sankranti is not very far. “ Sunpat said. Happy Ganguly started preparing. 




****
King Dula and Queen Dharma had been living in Bagnath for a month by now. They had taken an inn on rent. No one in the whole city knew that this husband and wife living in the inn were a royal couple. Both would wake up before sunrise, bathe in the holy water of the river and then go to the temple and offer water to the Shivling. After that Dula along with other volunteers would get engaged in the work of the temple like cleaning the temple courtyard and taking care of the trees and plants. Dharma used to contribute in preparing food in the temple kitchen. Both would also help in distributing the Prasad of the temple among the poor. Dula introduced himself as a merchant from Bairath. He had told the people that he had come to seek a vow from God Shiva to have a child.
In his free time Dula used to mediate Shiva or used to have discussions about spirituality with monks visiting the temple. Many people started visiting Bagnath as Makar Skranti was about to come. A big fair was going to be held in the temple on this occasion.


One night when Dula was cleaning the floor of the temple before he could go to sleep, he saw a couple sitting on the stairs of the temple. The couple looked gentle and prosperous. It was pretty late in the night. Dula found it strange. He decided to go to them and ask the reason for sitting on the stairs so late. 


“Sorry brother. Why have you been sitting on the steps of the temple for so long? You should go home. Come to the temple in the morning. People start coming before sunrise to offer prayers to God Shiva.”, said Dula. 


The man looked at Dula and replied “Brother, we came from very far - Darma Valley. I am a merchant. My name is Sunpat Shauka and she is my wife Ganguly. I came here for some business work and decided to stay for Makar Sankranti. We arrived here this morning. The whole day passed in business. I had my employees with me. I thought of finding a shelter for them and then for myself. I was able to find an inn for them. But they did not have any room left for us. I thought there might be other inns in the town so I started looking around. Unfortunately every inn is packed. We could not find a proper place to stay. Where would we go ? So I decided to spend the night on the stairs of the temple. I will find the inn again tomorrow morning, probably we will get one”


Dula was very impressed by Sunpat’s words. The one who first arranged accommodation for his employees and himself living in the cold air, is definitely a great person. Dula looked at the couple. Both of them were sitting covered with a thin shawl. 
It was late in the night and cold winds were blowing. Dula was worried for them. He thought that there were two rooms in his inn. He could give them a room. Dharma should be ok with this. 


“You are a great soul Sunpat. I wish all the employees would get an owner like you. If you don’t mind, I can offer shelter to you. I am here for a month. I have a better inn with two rooms. Me and my wife occupy only one so you can use the other one. If you allow, I can take you there” Dula requested with a smile. 


Sunpat was surprised with this offer, before he could react, Ganguly said “You are a very kind brother. We don’t want to be trouble for you. We can find some place in the morning. Coming to you will unnecessary create problems to you “


“No sister. This is not at all trouble. God Shiva wanted us to meet probably. My name is Dula, I am a merchant from Bairath. And in Bairtah, we are known for great hospitality. My inn is my home, allow me to show you how good Bairath people are. How would I face it when they’ll come to know that I left a couple alone on the stairs of a temple on a cold dark night. Allow me to take you to my inn. I can not assure you all the kind of comfort that you might be used to but I will make sure you get all the necessities “ Dula insisted with great humility. 


Who could refuse such a beautiful request ? Sunpat and Ganguly accepted the offer and got ready to go with Dula. 


On reaching home, Dula told the whole thing to Dharma. Dharma was very happy to see the service and hospitality of her husband. She warmly welcomed Sunpat and Ganguly. They were given hot milk to drink and Prasad brought from the temple to eat. Within no time, Dharma spread a carpet and some blankets in the empty room. Sunpat and Ganguly were overwhelmed with emotion after seeing this grand hospitality. They saw that the inn was very clean and everything was kept neatly. Dharma was serving them like a skilled housewife. 


While the men were talking about travel and trade, Ganguly went to the kitchen to help Dharma. “Dhamra, you must belong to a nobel family. Your upbringing and culture is remarkable. Only few can treat a stranger like you did” Ganguly said to Dharma. 


“We are from Bairtah. This is our duty to serve people in need.” Dhamra replied with a smile. Then she asked Ganguly “Do you visit Bagnath every year ? “ 


“No, this is my first time. I am here with hope. “ 


“What kind of hope ? If I may ask “


“Sure Dharma, there is nothing to hide. We have been married for many years. My husband is a very successful merchant. We have more money and prosperity we could ask for. But still, we are not happy. We don’t have any children. We tried everything. Many doctors and medicine, many temples and prayers, but nothing worked. A great monk told us that God Shiva blesses everyone. And what is a better place than Bagnath for Shiva’s blessing. We are here to worship Shiva on the pious occasion of Makar Sankranti and seek for his blessings. I hope we don’t get disappointed “ Said Ganguly with tears in her eyes.


Dharma could feel every world of Ganguly. After all, she was here for the same reason. She hugged Ganguly and calmed her down. Dharma looked at Ganguly’s eyes and told her their story. She told them about their purpose of visiting the temple. They shared the same pain. Pain connects souls. Within no time they both got connected and understood each other truly.  


Next morning when Sunpat and Ganguly wanted to leave to search for an inn, Dula and Dharma convinced them to stay with them until they were in Bagnath.


Now both the couples knew each other’s purpose of visiting the temple. Sunpat started helping Dula in temple volunteering and Ganguly started assisting Dharma in the temple's kitchen for prasad. They spent a lot of time together now. Eventually they became friends. After worship and serving people in the temple, the couple would sit on the temple courtyard and talk for hours. 


One day when Ganguly was bringing plucked flowers to worship in the temple, he heard a voice saying "I told you that I can see you in the temple", Ganguly turned around in surprise. That monk was standing there who asked Ganguly to come to Bagnath. 


Ganguly touched the feet of the monk and said "Baba, with your blessings I have come here. You are definitely a Siddh. It is your miracle that I am in front of you in Bagnath". The monk smiled and said, "Daughter, I am just a tool. Your destiny has brought you here. You will definitely get what you want. You have been chosen by the Gods to come here. Who am I to do miracles." The monk's words got Ganguly thinking and she said "Baba, you know my wish, I don't know what the Gods want, but my life has become blessed just by coming to Bagnath". The monk looked directly into Ganguly's eyes and said, "Even I don’t know what the Gods want, I can say for sure that they do not bring heavy rains to invite everyone." Having said that, the monk blessed Ganguly by keeping his hand on her head and disappeared in the crowd. Ganguly told the incident to Sunpat. They both were excited but a bit scared by the monk’s words. 


Only a few days were left for the arrival of Makar Sankranti. One evening when both the couple were sitting in the temple courtyard after serving in the temple for a whole day, Dula said "Brother Sunpat and Sister Ganguly, these days have been very well spent with you. We will go back in a few days but before that I want to tell you a truth. This is a secret which was very important for us to keep.” Sunpat and Dula could not understand anything. They looked at Dula with questionable eyes. 


Dula took a pause and then said “ I am not an ordinary merchant. I am the King of Bairtah. King  Dula Shah. And she is my wife, Queen Dharma. We are living here like fake merchants since we don’t want people to know our real identity. We are here to serve the people and worship Shiva. Since you are my close friend now, it is not fair to hide this secret from you. I hope you will forgive us for not telling this to you earlier”


Listening to this, Sunpat and Ganguly got shocked. The man who was cleaning the courtyard a few minutes back and helping all the volunteers throughout the day for weeks, is a King. And the lady who was cooking food in the temple kitchen with all the common ladies is the Queen. They never looked like a royal couple. Their clothes were ordinary and so was their behavior. Sunpat and Ganguly stood up from their seats and bowed their heads in respect to the king and queen. Sunpat said with great respect “ Forgive me your highness. I could not recognize you. If we hurt you or disrespected you by any means, please forgive us. “ Dula stood up and hugged Sunpat. 


“You are embarrassing me. I did not come here as a king. I came here as a devotee. And, you both did not disrespect us. In fact, the love and affection we got from both of you is truly amazing. You are our friends. “ Dula pacified Sunpat.


“This is your greatness, your highness. It's not my status to share a house with a king and a queen. “ Sunpat was still in shock. 


“Now you are embarrassing us “, Dula said with love.


“You both are great. No wonder why people call Bairtah - colorful Bairtah.  If a kingdom is led by a king and queen like you, prosperity is certain. We are fortunate to meet with you and to know you.” Ganguly said. 


“I don’t know sister. King and queen are also ordinary people. We are given duties to serve our people. My only goal is to make sure I do my duty well. As you know, we are here to get blessings of lord Shiva to have children, there is no difference between us and a beggar across the road. He is begging for money and we are begging for a baby.” Dula said in a sad voice. 


“And I hope we all will get what we want from God Shiva “, Dharma brought some positivity. She continued “We are also impressed with you two. You are a beautiful soul. We are very fortunate to meet with you. I wish God Shiva to bless us with children. I hope the days of negativity will be over soon. We both will have a happy family. “


“I wish so “, said Ganguly. 


But the royals had more things to share for Sunpat and Ganguly’s surprise. Dula said “ I don’t know if we'll meet again. But we really like you, and for that I wish to continue this friendship. Even after we leave Bagnath, we shall remain close “


“We sure will, your highness. It’s an honor “, Sunpat was overwhelmed. 


“Sunpat, I have been thinking for the last several days. I had a dream and was advised by my Guru ji to visit Bagnath. Coming here and suddenly meeting you and becoming such a close friend cannot be a coincidence. Even a monk inspired you to come here. And all your programs went on being created automatically. I don't know the vested interests of the Gods but I can definitely say that behind all this the Gods are definitely giving some message. Our meeting can't be just a common occurrence.” Dula was serious and then he looked at the sky and continued “Our coming here is for the wish of having a child. You are a rich merchant of Darma valley and I am a king. Nothing is the same between us. But still we are sitting here and talking. We understand each other's pain and sorrow. I definitely feel that Gods wanted us to meet. And if they wants us to meet, then surely they have some work that they want to do through us.” 


“I do not understand your highness. Probably all this is a coincidence “ , said Sunpat.


“There is nothing normal about this. Two couples going through the same problem get strange signs. They come to Bagnath and become friends. I don't know what the Gods want, but it is sure that with this friendship Bairath and Darama will get to know each other better.” Dula continued “ I surely want to continue our friendship. And I have a proposal for you. You may think I am out of my mind, but think carefully before you respond “


Everyone started wondering. Dula started looking at Dhamra and with a smile he said “Dear, would you like to share the proposal “


“I will be happy to do so “, Dharma said with a gentle smile and continued “ Brother Sunpat  and sister Ganguly, life brought us here for children. We don’t know if we will ever have them. The only thing we can do is hope. Hope is the best thing and keeps us alive.. But if ever we have children, we should get them married to each other. We propose as a friend, if we ever get children, let's be more than friends after that. Let’s be relatives.” Saying this she became silent.


Sunpat and Ganguly were in shock. For sure they were not expecting this. This evening was throwing all kinds of surprises to them. First knowing that their friends are a royal couple and then an offer to be a part of the royal family was completely unexpected. They did not know what to say. 


“Did we offend you ? “ Scared Dharma asked. 


There was silence in the meeting. The royals thought they had offended the Shauka family. They were scared. After few moments surprised Sunpat said 
“I don’t know what to say to your highness. We are honored with this offer. I am still shocked and shivering. I don’t know if this is a dream or real. This will be a great joy if that is possible “ 


Ganguly looked at Dharma and said “I came here for a baby. I met your highness and felt like I found an old friend. But I would never have thought in my wildest dreams that you would ask for a relationship. I am not sure if we have the same status as you. I am not sure if you know what you are saying “ Ganuly had tears in her eyes. Dharma went ahead, hugged Ganguly and said “ I have spent so many days with you Ganguly. I know your status is way above many human bearings around us. I hope we get our dreams fulfilled.  Let’s pray for this Ganguly. A bright future is waiting for us “